.github/instructions/typescript-5-esnext.instructions.md, before:

---
description: 'Guidelines for TypeScript Development targeting TypeScript 5.x and ESNext output'
applyTo: '**/*.ts'
---

# TypeScript Development

> These instructions assume projects are built with TypeScript 5.x (or newer) compiling to an ESNext JavaScript baseline. Adjust guidance if your runtime requires older language targets or down-level transpilation.

## Core Intent

- Respect the existing architecture and coding standards.
- Prefer readable, explicit solutions over clever shortcuts.
- Extend current abstractions before inventing new ones.
- Prioritize maintainability and clarity, short methods and classes, clean code.

## General Guardrails

- Target TypeScript 5.x / ESNext and prefer native features over polyfills.
- Use pure ES modules; never emit `require`, `module.exports`, or CommonJS helpers.
- Rely on the project's build, lint, and test scripts unless asked otherwise.
- Note design trade-offs when intent is not obvious.

## Project Organization

- Follow the repository's folder and responsibility layout for new code.
- Use kebab-case filenames (e.g., `user-session.ts`, `data-service.ts`) unless told otherwise.
- Keep tests, types, and helpers near their implementation when it aids discovery.
- Reuse or extend shared utilities before adding new ones.

## Naming & Style

- Use PascalCase for classes, interfaces, enums, and type aliases; camelCase for everything else.
- Skip interface prefixes like `I`; rely on descriptive names.
- Name things for their behavior or domain meaning, not implementation.

## Formatting & Style

- Run the repository's lint/format scripts (e.g., `npm run lint`) before submitting.
- Match the project's indentation, quote style, and trailing comma rules.
- Keep functions focused; extract helpers when logic branches grow.
- Favor immutable data and pure functions when practical.

## Type System Expectations

- Avoid `any` (implicit or explicit); prefer `unknown` plus narrowing.
- Use discriminated unions for realtime events and state machines.
- Centralize shared contracts instead of duplicating shapes.
- Express intent with TypeScript utility types (e.g., `Readonly`, `Partial`, `Record`).

## Async, Events & Error Handling

- Use `async/await`; wrap awaits in try/catch with structured errors.
- Guard edge cases early to avoid deep nesting.
- Send errors through the project's logging/telemetry utilities.
- Surface user-facing errors via the repository's notification pattern.
- Debounce configuration-driven updates and dispose resources deterministically.

## Architecture & Patterns

- Follow the repository's dependency injection or composition pattern; keep modules single-purpose.
- Observe existing initialization and disposal sequences when wiring into lifecycles.
- Keep transport, domain, and presentation layers decoupled with clear interfaces.
- Supply lifecycle hooks (e.g., `initialize`, `dispose`) and targeted tests when adding services.

## External Integrations

- Instantiate clients outside hot paths and inject them for testability.
- Never hardcode secrets; load them from secure sources.
- Apply retries, backoff, and cancellation to network or IO calls.
- Normalize external responses and map errors to domain shapes.

## Security Practices

- Validate and sanitize external input with schema validators or type guards.
- Avoid dynamic code execution and untrusted template rendering.
- Encode untrusted content before rendering HTML; use framework escaping or trusted types.
- Use parameterized queries or prepared statements to block injection.
- Keep secrets in secure storage, rotate them regularly, and request least-privilege scopes.
- Favor immutable flows and defensive copies for sensitive data.
- Use vetted crypto libraries only.
- Patch dependencies promptly and monitor advisories.

## Configuration & Secrets

- Reach configuration through shared helpers and validate with schemas or dedicated validators.
- Handle secrets via the project's secure storage; guard `undefined` and error states.
- Document new configuration keys and update related tests.

## UI & UX Components

- Sanitize user or external content before rendering.
- Keep UI layers thin; push heavy logic to services or state managers.
- Use messaging or events to decouple UI from business logic.

## Testing Expectations

- Rerun unit tests and linters before after changes.
- If there are no tests, add new unit tests to cover your changes.
- Add or update unit tests with the project's framework and naming style.
- Expand integration or end-to-end suites when behavior crosses modules or platform APIs.
- Run targeted test scripts for quick feedback before submitting.
- Avoid brittle timing assertions; prefer fake timers or injected clocks.

## Performance & Reliability

- Lazy-load heavy dependencies and dispose them when done.
- Defer expensive work until users need it.
- Batch or debounce high-frequency events to reduce thrash.
- Track resource lifetimes to prevent leaks.

## Documentation & Comments

- Add JSDoc to public APIs; include `@remarks` or `@example` when helpful.
- Write comments that capture intent, and remove stale notes during refactors.
- Update architecture or design docs when introducing significant patterns.

Commit message:

Refactor tests and implementations for Roborock communication (#86)
* Refactor tests and implementations for Roborock communication

- Updated AbstractClient tests to remove unused variable warnings.
- Enhanced SimpleMessageListener tests for protocol compatibility.
- Improved SyncMessageListener tests to include isForProtocol method.
- Modified ResponseMessage tests to accommodate new header and body structure.
- Added tests for L01MessageBodyBuilder and UnknownMessageBodyBuilder.
- Introduced MessageBodyBuilderFactory tests for builder retrieval.
- Implemented MessageDeserializer tests for response message handling.
- Updated message serializer/deserializer tests for improved validation.
- Created L01Serializer tests for payload encoding.
- Refined RoborockService tests for clearer logging and error handling.
- Adjusted TSLint configuration to ignore unused variable warnings in test arguments.

* fix: correct service file names case for cross-platform compatibility

* refactor: update timeout constants for consistency and clarity; enhance connection state handling

* fix: correct log level assertion in ConnectionStateListener tests

* refactor: enhance logging consistency by adding context identifiers to log messages across LocalNetworkClient, MQTTClient, and MessageDeserializer

.github/instructions/typescript-5-esnext.instructions.md, after:

---
description: 'Guidelines for TypeScript Development targeting TypeScript 5.x and ESNext output'
applyTo: '**/*.ts'
---

# TypeScript Development

> These instructions assume projects are built with TypeScript 5.x (or newer) compiling to an ESNext JavaScript baseline. Adjust guidance if your runtime requires older language targets or down-level transpilation.

## Core Intent

- Respect the existing architecture and coding standards.
- Prefer readable, explicit solutions over clever shortcuts.
- Extend current abstractions before inventing new ones.
- Prioritize maintainability and clarity, short methods and classes, clean code.

## General Guardrails

- Target TypeScript 5.x / ESNext and prefer native features over polyfills.
- Use pure ES modules; never emit `require`, `module.exports`, or CommonJS helpers.
- Rely on the project's build, lint, and test scripts unless asked otherwise.
- Note design trade-offs when intent is not obvious.

## Project Organization

- Follow the repository's folder and responsibility layout for new code.
- Use camelCase filenames (e.g., `userSession.ts`, `dataService.ts`) unless told otherwise.
- Keep tests, types, and helpers near their implementation when it aids discovery.
- Reuse or extend shared utilities before adding new ones.
- Test files must be located in `src/test` or alongside implementation files as per project conventions.

## Coding Practices
- Apply TDD: write tests before implementation when feasible for fixes or features.
- Favor composition over inheritance; use interfaces and types for contracts.
- Add `public`, `private`, or `protected` access modifiers explicitly.
- Use `readonly` for properties that should not change after initialization.
- Prefer `const` and `let` over `var`; use `const` by default.
- Destructure objects and arrays to extract needed values.
- Use template literals for string interpolation and multi-line strings.
- Leverage modern ESNext features like optional chaining, nullish coalescing, and top-level await.
- Avoid deep nesting by early returns or guard clauses.
- Use `for...of` loops or array methods (`map`, `filter`, `reduce`) instead of traditional `for` loops when iterating collections.
- Handle asynchronous code with `async/await` instead of raw Promises when possible.
- Use `try/catch` blocks around `await` calls that may fail.
- Prefer `Map`, `Set`, and other built-in data structures over plain objects for collections when appropriate.
- Avoid using `eval`, `with`, or other dynamic code features.
- Keep functions focused on a single task; extract helpers for complex logic.
- Read the project's structure from `docs\CODE_STRUCTURE.md` to understand module boundaries and responsibilities.

## Naming & Style

- Use PascalCase for classes, interfaces, enums, and type aliases; camelCase for everything else.
- Skip interface prefixes like `I`; rely on descriptive names.
- Name things for their behavior or domain meaning, not implementation.

## Formatting & Style

- Run the repository's lint/format scripts (e.g., `npm run lint`) before submitting.
- Match the project's indentation, quote style, and trailing comma rules.
- Keep functions focused; extract helpers when logic branches grow.
- Favor immutable data and pure functions when practical.

## Type System Expectations

- Avoid `any` (implicit or explicit); prefer `unknown` plus narrowing.
- Use discriminated unions for realtime events and state machines.
- Centralize shared contracts instead of duplicating shapes.
- Express intent with TypeScript utility types (e.g., `Readonly`, `Partial`, `Record`).

## Async, Events & Error Handling

- Use `async/await`; wrap awaits in try/catch with structured errors.
- Guard edge cases early to avoid deep nesting.
- Send errors through the project's logging/telemetry utilities.
- Surface user-facing errors via the repository's notification pattern.
- Debounce configuration-driven updates and dispose resources deterministically.

## Architecture & Patterns

- Follow the repository's dependency injection or composition pattern; keep modules single-purpose.
- Observe existing initialization and disposal sequences when wiring into lifecycles.
- Keep transport, domain, and presentation layers decoupled with clear interfaces.
- Supply lifecycle hooks (e.g., `initialize`, `dispose`) and targeted tests when adding services.

## External Integrations

- Instantiate clients outside hot paths and inject them for testability.
- Never hardcode secrets; load them from secure sources.
- Apply retries, backoff, and cancellation to network or IO calls.
- Normalize external responses and map errors to domain shapes.

## Security Practices

- Validate and sanitize external input with schema validators or type guards.
- Avoid dynamic code execution and untrusted template rendering.
- Encode untrusted content before rendering HTML; use framework escaping or trusted types.
- Use parameterized queries or prepared statements to block injection.
- Keep secrets in secure storage, rotate them regularly, and request least-privilege scopes.
- Favor immutable flows and defensive copies for sensitive data.
- Use vetted crypto libraries only.
- Patch dependencies promptly and monitor advisories.

## Configuration & Secrets

- Reach configuration through shared helpers and validate with schemas or dedicated validators.
- Handle secrets via the project's secure storage; guard `undefined` and error states.
- Document new configuration keys and update related tests.

## UI & UX Components

- Sanitize user or external content before rendering.
- Keep UI layers thin; push heavy logic to services or state managers.
- Use messaging or events to decouple UI from business logic.

## Testing Expectations

- Rerun unit tests and linters before after changes.
- If there are no tests, add new unit tests to cover your changes.
- Add or update unit tests with the project's framework and naming style.
- Expand integration or end-to-end suites when behavior crosses modules or platform APIs.
- Run targeted test scripts for quick feedback before submitting.
- Avoid brittle timing assertions; prefer fake timers or injected clocks.

## Performance & Reliability

- Lazy-load heavy dependencies and dispose them when done.
- Defer expensive work until users need it.
- Batch or debounce high-frequency events to reduce thrash.
- Track resource lifetimes to prevent leaks.

## Documentation & Comments

- Write comments that capture intent, and remove stale notes during refactors.
- Update architecture or design docs when introducing significant patterns.
